---
stylesheet: screen.css
title: 1. Hello World
style: chapter page-1
published: true
layout: default
---
18 October notes from craigmj.

# Thinking on the Syllabus

These short notes are an attempt to make sense of the syllabus.

The syllabus consists of a range of complicated techniques. When I see a student preparing for a grade, they are focussed and worried about accomplishing each technique. But the technique is not what you actually need to demonstrate in the grading, although you obviously need to know the technique. The 18 Principles was a first attempt to describe the ideas underlying my Aikido. These notes attempt to discuss the requirements of each grade with the 18 Principles in mind, and specifically to think about how each technique demonstrates some aspect of Aikido. Perhaps it is a roadmap to how one might approach the syllabus, the route to shodan, and a brief sketch of what I hope people look for beyond.

Remember that I am not a senior instructor. These notes are my own working notes, describing what I'm trying to encourage in my dojo. Use them as a measure of your progress: don't measure yourself by the techniques you know. As Bruce Lee said, “I don't fear the person who has practiced ten thousand techniques once. I fear the person who has practiced one technique ten thousand times.”

Shodan is the 'beginner's grade', the stage at which one really begins to study Aikido. Now you know the form of the techniques. Now you start making them your own.

# Nidan

By Nidan, I want to see that you have started searching outside. You should be looking at other teachers, visiting other dojos, and attending seminars. You should be doing this on an international stage - not just looking inside South Africa, but looking throughout the world. Do you like Endo Sensei, or Yamada Sensei? Tada Sensei, or Tissier Sensei? Or someone else? Use YouTube to get some ideas, but go to seminars to feel their practice. Travel and practice at their dojos. There is no substitute. If you can't afford to travel, invite the teachers here. Work with your Aikido federation to get enough interest, then find a way to get the teachers to travel to you.

At this point, your waza should be fluid and natural. The Advanced Principles, and others that you discover or learn, should be the focus of your practice.

# Sandan

By Sandan, I want to see you. At this point technique should be excellent. You should be able to easily handle groups of attackers. You should be able to play.

Within the dojo I expect you to teach. I want to see that you can share what you know, that you can practice softly and carefully with beginners, and vigorously and carefully with seniors.

I want to see that you assist senior students preparing for Shodan. I want to see that there are students who follow you. I expect them to attend other classes, but I want to hear from students, "Ah, I really like her Aikido" when we talk about their favourites. Your Aikido is becoming distinctive, your style unique.

# Yondan

At this stage, you should have found your teacher who does the Aikido that you want to pursue, the Aikido that speaks to you. This teacher should grade you for Yondan.

Within the dojo I want to see that you have become a senior teacher. I would like to see some students grading for Shodan who trace their influence to you from their beginning in Aikido. You should be able to point to some Shodan and say, "Those are my students."
