---
title: "2. Some General Advice for Grading"
---

# The 18 Principles

These are the 18 Principles that I am working on.

## Basic Principles

1. Posture: Stand straight. Keep your head up.
2. Movement: Move from your legs, your hips and your lower back.
3. Relax.
4. Feeling: Sense your partner's movement.
5. Response: Respond to your partner's movement.
6. Care: Care for yourself and for your partner.

## Intermediate Principles

7. Weight: use the natural weight of your body.
8. Extension: Extend your attention beyond your body.
9. Connection: connect yourself and your partner with a spring.
10. Waiting: wait for the waza to form.
11. Listening: Be continuously aware of the feeling of your partner.
12. Pressure: throughout the waza, keep the pressure the same.

## Advanced Principles

13. Invitation: invite uke's attack.
14. Wrapping: wrap the whole of uke (and beyond) in the waza.
15. Kuzushi: take uke's centre.
16. Acceptance and Forgiveness: accept the attack, and allow it to pass.
17. Trust the Waza: trust that the waza is enough.
18. Beginner's and Master's Mind: Know that your waza will succeed. 

# Some General Advice for Grading

Show the technique, don't show off. A grading is not a time for fancy Aikido. Show the most basic form of every technique (the kihon form), as cleanly as possible.

When you take ukemi, as in every practice, you want to help your partner do the best technique possible. This means, of course, that you don't throw yourself, but rather you provide an honest, but not difficult, attack, and work to keep the connection to tori.

Grade at half speed. Your body will be flooding with adrenaline. Aim for half speed, and you should come out about right.

{:#example-id}
