---
title: 6th kyu
---

# 6th Kyu
There are only 3 principles I want to see in 6th kyu.

You need to take care of your partner, and take care of yourself. In your ukemi, I want to see that you are rolling carefully and being sure not to hurt or endanger yourself. When you are tori, executing the technique, you are being careful for the person you are throwing. Especially at 6th kyu, this means going softly and slowly. You need to be aware that your partner might not roll well, so be especially sensitive to any mistakes they might make. Aikido should be painless, and your partner should feel safe practicing with you.

The second principle you must demonstrate is posture. Keep your back straight and upright, and lower yourself by going down in the knees, not bending over. When you have pinned uke, be sure that your back is still straight, and that you are looking out.

Think about your posture throughout the grading, not just while you are doing a technique or taking ukemi. When you are seated, when you bow, make sure your back is straight and your head up.

Yamaguchi Sensei said that a grading should require nothing more than the bow-in. Just watching your bow, one can tell everything about your Aikido. There is no trick to this – there is not a clever way of bowing. Be sincere, be attentive, lay your awareness evenly across the dojo. This awareness is both very advanced, and something you can practice from your first day in the dojo. It is not a paranoia – you are not about to be attacked at any moment! It is a mindfulness, a keeping yourself gently aware of everything, without grasping at anything.

The third principle I want to see in 6th kyu is movement from the body, not from the arms. Make sure you are moving your body with every technique. If your posture is good and your body is in the right position, you won't need to push or pull, or use your arms at all. As you move your body, uke will be moved with you.

I also want to see movement when you are taking ukemi. Don't be frantic, but think about how you are moving. You are attacking, and you want to keep tori, who is doing the technique, in your sight. So make sure you turn towards them, that you try to keep a feeling in yourself that you are attacking, very softly, but quite persistently.

Beyond the basic forms you learn for 6th kyu, I want to see that you are thinking about the difference between front and back: omote and ura. There are only 2 techniques – ikkyo and shihonage – that you show in both omote and ura form. Think carefully about this distinction, not just where you put your feet and place your body, and experiment with the distance between yourself and uke: is one or the other easier if you are closer or further apart? Try to feel the different sensation of going backwards or going forwards. Think carefully about the timing of omote or ura.

