---
stylesheet: screen.css
layout: default
style: chapter
published: false
title: 06-4kyu.md
---
# 4th Kyu

In 4th kyu, I expect to see the first 6 Principles becoming natural. Both as tori and as uke, I want to see responsiveness coupled with relaxation.

At a technical level, 4th kyu only really introduces tenchinage, and some new attacks: ryotetori, yokomenuchi and chudantsuki. As uke, execute these clearly and with control, but still softly. You mustn't throw yourself away in the technique. Rather, sustain a relationship with tori. Make sure that you return to your centre after the attack. Do not position yourself awaiting the waza.

At 4th kyu, more than before, you are demonstrating the same technique from diverse attacks. I expect to see that sense of familiarity with the technique, and an appreciation of the differences dictated by different attacks. When you practice for 4th kyu, remember this: these are techniques you know, they are becoming part of your practice. You are primarily demonstrating the ability to find the techniques from different starting points.

In preparing for 4th kyu, ask yourself how uke feels. The different attacks create different dynamics in uke's body – where is their balance, what is their momentum, how are their limbs arranged? Be very aware that, while you are creating the same waza in uke, you are doing so from different initial moments, doing so within different parameters.

Use 4th kyu preparation as an opportunity to explore this theme: “the same, but different.”