---
stylesheet: screen.css
layout: default
style: chapter
published: true
title: 07-3kyu.md
---


# 3rd Kyu

By 3rd kyu, you've pretty much seen all the techniques before. You're demonstrating the same techniques from different attacks. The big distinction is the introduction of ushiro-waza. You have to control an uke who is going behind you. In these techniques, I want to see an awareness of your back, and the ability to sense and respond to uke even when they are behind you.

There are many ways to do ushirowaza. For me, the emphasis should be on sensitivity.

Ushiro-waza does not exist in the syllabus because it is a complication, or an attack that might happen, and for which one requires a response. Rather, ushiro-waza exists to explore controlling an uke, even when they are behind you. I don't want to see a rush to get uke in front - I want to see a considered controlling of uke, before they are behind you, allowing them behind, and controlling them while they are behind, and bringing them in front again. So don't see ushiro as a nuisance to be avoided, but see it as an opportunity to explore a complication, and to use that exploration to deepend your understanding of how to control uke.

At 3rd kyu level, your practice should also be exploring the 6 Intermediate Principles. I want to see the use of weight and extension. You should be able to create and maintain a connection, both as tori and as uke. Waiting and listening are both principles that are essential for ushirowaza, as they are everywhere. At 3rd kyu I'm also expecting to see a constant pressure maintained throughout your practice – at this level I don't expect to see any jerking or dragging. I expect to see you connecting with uke and keeping the connection softly and evenly throughout.
